# ECE 487: Data Communication Networks

## Introduction

### Five components of data communications

- Protocol
- Message
- Medium
- Sender
- Receiver

### Dataflow types

- Simplex: One way communication
- Duplex: Two way communication
  - Half: Usually implemented with time sliced round robin communication
  - Full: Can be implemented by using multiple links, with different link for send and receive.

### Networks

A set of devices (nodes) connected by links

Types:

- Point to Point: One node to another node
- Multipoint: One node to many nodes

### Topologies

- Mesh: Dedicated point to point link to every device.
  - Advantages
    - Robust: When one link fails, others can still work.
    - Private: Node to node communication, nothing in between to eavesdrop.
    - Easy to diagnose: When A can't talk to B, most likely link between A and B broke.
  - Disadvantages
    - More hardware required compared to other topologies.
      - For N stations, $\frac{(n-1)}{2}$ cables, $(n-1) n$ IO ports.
  - Example use case
    - Internet backbone connection
- Star: Dedicated point to point from client to hub/router/switch
  - Advantages
    - Cheaper: less cables and IO ports compared to mesh
    - Private: When not using Hub, message is only sent to correct device.
  - Disadvantages
    - Not robust: Once central device goes down, network goes down
  - Example use case
    - LANs
- Bus: A single bus line where clients are connected to via drop lines and taps
  - Advantages
  - Disadvantages
    - Signal strength: Taps cause signal reflection, adding distortion. 
